Use Ice Wall to prevent enemies from escaping your Blizzard ultimate.
You can use Ice Wall to block D.Va's Defense Matrix.
On maps with control or capture points, you can hide in a corner and alternate between Cryo-Freeze and Ice Wall to stall for a long time.
Ice Wall breaks Junkrat's trap when used under a trapped teammate.
Although the Icicle shot can do a lot of damage, the damage starts to fall off after around 26 to 55 meters.
You can use Cryo-Freeze to jump on top of the cars on Oasis City Center in order to get to the control point faster.
You can use Cryo-Freeze on top of a sleeping ally to protect them from getting eliminated, especially if there are surrounded by enemies.
Experienced enemies know how long your Cryo-Freeze lasts and can time a powerful ability for when you exit. Sometimes, it is better to exit Cryo-Freeze early in order to surprise your enemy and avoid taking more damage.
Your Icicle can do up to 150 damage with a critical hit. You should practice hitting headshots with it and use it as your main form of attack.
If you are being surrounded by enemies when in Cryo-Freeze, cancel it early and use Ice Wall either below you or between you and the enemies in order to escape.
When you see an ally getting hooked by Roadhog, you can place your Ice Wall between them and the enemy Roadhog to prevent them from taking any damage. If you expect Roadhog to hook someone, then you can get your Ice Wall placement marker ready early, before placing the wall.
Watch out for enemies positioning themselves to use high-damage ultimates. When an enemy is using their ultimate or about to use their ultimate, you can use Ice Wall to block it.
When in close range 1v1 situation, jump around your enemy to make it harder for them to hit you whilst freezing them. Then, finish them off with Icicle headshots. For high health heroes, you may have to freeze them multiple times before eliminating them.
Place an Ice Wall on top of the payload to provide your team with moving cover. However, don't place it in front of the payload as the payload will simply destroy it.
Wait next to a choke point and get ready for the enemy team to start moving through. When one or two enemies pass the choke, block the choke point with an Ice Wall to split the enemy team. This will let your team outnumber the enemy and eliminate them easier.
Remember that Ice Wall blocks both teammates and enemies. Make sure that you do not harm your team with your Ice Wall by accident.